# DataScienceMasterProject
Master Project for Master of Science ( Data Science) in UTM 

Master Project title: SOCIAL MEDIA SENTIMENT ANALYSIS OF MALAYSIAN FAST FOOD RETAIL CHAIN BASED ON DEEP LEARNING

Abstract: 
Fast food restaurants have gained immense popularity in Malaysia due to their convenience, affordability, and quick service. Fast food restaurants in Malaysia are leveraging the power of social media to connect with a wide audience and promote their offerings. Platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram enable them to engage with customers in real-time and receive instant feedback. The need for sentiment analysis arises as it allows these restaurants to understand customer opinions and preferences. By analyzing social media posts and reviews, they can identify customer sentiments, address concerns, and make data-driven decisions. Performing sentiment analysis provides a valuable chance for fast food restaurants in Malaysia to enhance customer experience, improve service quality, and tailor their offerings to meet customer demands. The purpose of this study is to build a classification model using deep learning technique for classification of the sentiment related to Malaysian fast food to study the customer feedback and to present the insight and outcome obtained from the classification using dashboard. The dataset used in this study is collected from various sources including Facebook, Twitter, previous research and OpenAI. The dataset consists of 98171 samples. All the data is cleaned and merged into one dataset to be pre-processed before input into deep learning classification model. CNN model is used to classify the sentiment to understand customer response toward the service and product provide by fast-food retail chain. The performance of the CNN model is evaluated in term of accuracy, recall, precision, and F1-score. The performance of the CNN model will be compared to other related studies developed model to act as benchmark. Subsequently, the study aims to generate a social media monitoring dashboard, presenting valuable insights to the top management team of the fast-food retail chain. This comprehensive dashboard will empower decision-makers to make informed choices and implement strategic improvements to enhance their business operations.
